{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Redefining NBA Positions - A Clustering Analysis based on Player Shooting Style\
\

\b PRINT:
\b0 \
\
Traditionally, all NBA players are classified into 5 positions: point guard, shooting guard, small forward, power forward and center, primarily based on players\'92 heights. Moreover, a player\'92s position normally indicates his role on the team: a point guard\'92s job is to handle the ball and organize offense while a center stands as the defensive wall and grabs rebound. However, as the game of basketball revolutionizes, boundaries between positions have become more and more ambiguous: a two-guard may be listed as a point guard but plays like a shooting guard, such as Allen Iverson; the distinction between shooting guard and small forward in terms of shot selection is always a myth; nowadays, more and more big men have developed outside shooting. \
It is fair to say that the conventional 5-position categorization can no longer suffice the ever-evolving dynamics of the NBA. Size and height are becoming less of factor when distinguishing players\'92 roles. One new perspective is to cluster players into more detailed categories based on shooting style rather than just size and height. In my work, I break down each player by the percentage of his shot attempts in 3 ranges of the floor ( less than 12 feet, between 12 & 24 feet and greater than 24 feet away from the basket ). I then use cluster analysis to cluster players into an arbitrary number of groups of interest. Thus, we can use this more dynamic perspective for further study and analysis: \'93What combinations of player types contribute to better offensive or overall team performance?\'94 \'93What trade options does a team have in terms of player types?\'94 etc. \
\
Don\'92t let height define you as a basketball player!}